README.md, before:

# Live Code for .NET

Live Code is my attempt to build a live coding environment for the development of iOS and Android apps using Xamarin technologies.

It currently works only in Xamarin Studio and only for C#.

## One-time Installation

**Install** the preview version of [Xamarin Inspector](https://developer.xamarin.com/guides/cross-platform/inspector/).

**Install the Live Code Xamarin Studio Add-in** by adding a New Gallery Repository pointing at the URL:

	https://raw.githubusercontent.com/praeclarum/LiveCode/master/LiveCode.Client.MonoDevelop/AddinRepo

You will then be able to select the **Live Code** Add-in from the **IDE extensions** category.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/praeclarum/LiveCode/master/Documentation/AddAddinRepo.png" width="420px"/>

## Per-app Installation

1. Reference the [LiveCode nuget](https://www.nuget.org/packages/LiveCode/).

2. Put this line of code somewhere in the initialization of your app (`AppDelegate.FinishedLaunching` or `Activity.OnCreate` are great places):

```csharp
new LiveCode.Server.HttpServer(this).Run();
```

where `this` should refer to a `Context` on Android, and is ignored (can be anything or `null`) on iOS.

## Android Emulator Extra Step

If you want to run with the Android Emulator, you will have to forward the TCP port used by LiveCode:

```bash
$ adb forward tcp:9634 tcp:9634
```

## Running

Run the debug version of your app. It should start as normal.

### Running Snippets

Send snippets of code to be compiled, executed, and visualized using the **Visualize Selection** (Ctrl+Shift+Return) command.

### Live Coding a Class

You can mark a class to be monitored and automatically displayed whenever you edit it (and there are no code errors).

Move your cursor to be within a class and select the **Visualize Class** (Ctrl+Shift+C) command.


## Building

Build the solution `LiveCode.sln`

### Prerequisties

Install the Xamarin Studio **Addin Maker** from the **Addin Development** group in the Gallery.


## How it Works

**Live Code** uses the class [`Mono.CSharp.Evaluator`](http://www.mono-project.com/docs/about-mono/languages/csharp/) to compile and execute code snippets while the app is running.

The IDE add-in allows the user to send snippets to this evaluator. The code is compiled and executed.

If the code produces a value (if it is an expression) then the value is automatically displayed.

The IDE communicates with the device using HTTP on port 9634. Requests and responses are simple JSON bundles.

### Example Request and Response

```bash
$ curl -d "{\"Code\":\"2+2\"}" http://127.0.0.1:9634
```

```json
{"Messages":[],"Duration":"00:00:00.0025132","Result":4,"HasResult":true}
```

Commit message:

Explain how to spot Inspector problems

README.md, after:

# Live Code for .NET

Live Code is my attempt to build a live coding environment for the development of iOS and Android apps using Xamarin technologies.

It currently works only in Xamarin Studio and only for C#.

## One-time Installation

**Install** the preview version of [Xamarin Inspector](https://developer.xamarin.com/guides/cross-platform/inspector/).

**Install the Live Code Xamarin Studio Add-in** by adding a New Gallery Repository pointing at the URL:

	https://raw.githubusercontent.com/praeclarum/LiveCode/master/LiveCode.Client.MonoDevelop/AddinRepo

You will then be able to select the **Live Code** Add-in from the **IDE extensions** category.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/praeclarum/LiveCode/master/Documentation/AddAddinRepo.png" width="420px"/>

## Per-app Installation

1. Reference the [LiveCode nuget](https://www.nuget.org/packages/LiveCode/).

2. Put this line of code somewhere in the initialization of your app (`AppDelegate.FinishedLaunching` or `Activity.OnCreate` are great places):

```csharp
new LiveCode.Server.HttpServer(this).Run();
```

where `this` should refer to a `Context` on Android, and is ignored (can be anything or `null`) on iOS.

### Android Emulator Extra Step

If you want to run with the Android Emulator, you will have to forward the TCP port used by LiveCode:

```bash
$ adb forward tcp:9634 tcp:9634
```

## Running

Run the debug version of your app. It should start as normal.

Verify that the Xamarin Inspector is installed and running by looking for the enabled cross-hair icon in the debug toolbar. If you see that while debugging, you're all set. If not, make sure you have a debug build and that the Inspector is installed.

### Running Snippets

Send snippets of code to be compiled, executed, and visualized using the **Visualize Selection** (Ctrl+Shift+Return) command.

### Live Coding a Class

You can mark a class to be monitored and automatically displayed whenever you edit it (and there are no code errors).

Move your cursor to be within a class and select the **Visualize Class** (Ctrl+Shift+C) command.


## Building

Build the solution `LiveCode.sln`

### Prerequisties

Install the Xamarin Studio **Addin Maker** from the **Addin Development** group in the Gallery.


## How it Works

**Live Code** uses the class [`Mono.CSharp.Evaluator`](http://www.mono-project.com/docs/about-mono/languages/csharp/) to compile and execute code snippets while the app is running.

The IDE add-in allows the user to send snippets to this evaluator. The code is compiled and executed.

If the code produces a value (if it is an expression) then the value is automatically displayed.

The IDE communicates with the device using HTTP on port 9634. Requests and responses are simple JSON bundles.

### Example Request and Response

```bash
$ curl -d "{\"Code\":\"2+2\"}" http://127.0.0.1:9634
```

```json
{"Messages":[],"Duration":"00:00:00.0025132","Result":4,"HasResult":true}
```
